Hey everyone and thanks for dropping
back into the cryptoverse.
Today, we're going to talk about
Bitcoin.
An unfortunate pattern.
An update. If you guys like the content,
make sure you subscribe to the channel,
give the video a thumbs up, and also
check out the sale on into the
cryptoverse premium at
intothecryptoverse.com.
As a reminder, if you are interested in
attending the first ITC conference,
check that out on the website. And we
actually just republished a new report
on macro risk memo
for May 2026. Uh if you're interested in
that, make sure you guys check that out.
It's, of course, absolutely free to
read. Um let's go to jump in. So, we've
made a couple of videos here over the
last 6 months or so, 4 or 5 months,
about this pattern for Bitcoin and you
know, it's called an unfortunate
pattern. And I think one of the videos
we did here
uh was 4 months ago, right? And And back
then, you can see stablecoin dominance
was at like 8 and 1/2%. Um
Bitcoin was like 91K.
And a lot of people were kind of all
bulled up back then, and stablecoin
dominance at the time was was dropping.
Locally.
But what did we say?
We said this is pattern
is an unfortunate pattern. And the
unfortunate pattern is this.
When you look at stablecoin dominance,
in this case an approximation of it,
USDT dominance plus USDC dominance, you
can see there was this massive base
that had that it formed on this metric,
right? This massive base.
And the argument is that you don't form
a base that holds for over 2 years only
to have a false breakout above it, more
than likely.
And so, what we said was that, you know,
you'll first sweep the high,
you'll come back and backtest it, and
then you'll go higher, right? So, if you
go back and look at that video,
um you know, that was that was
essentially what we talked about, right?
You go down, back test that bull market
support band, and then go higher.
And then,
we talked about in an in the next video
called an unfortunate pattern update, we
talked about how after you get your next
move up, you then tend to come back
down, and oftentimes you will actually
go slightly below the bull market
support band. And we've actually seen
that happen with stablecoin dominance a
number of times in the last bear market.
If you look at the last bear market,
you'll notice how oftentimes stablecoin
dominance would come just below that
21-week EMA, 20-week SMA before then
going back up. You can see it happened
in March 2022, and it also happened in
August of 2022 going just below it
before going right back up to the
upside. It also happened in October of
2022, and then we know Bitcoin bottomed
somewhere around this part.
And so, stablecoin dominance, this is an
unfortunate pattern, because when you
form a base as large as this one, when
you have a breakout, it tends to last
for a while. And if you don't know what
I'm talking about, think about the
Bitcoin dominance chart.
Right? Think about the Bitcoin dominance
chart. And what happened after Bitcoin
dominance formed a similar base many,
many years ago, where it initially broke
out, we're going to look at this on the
weekly time frame, it initially broke
out,
and you can see that here,
had a pullback, but did not quite go to
the 20-week SMA or 21-week EMA, just
like stablecoin dominance didn't quite
make it there, right? Like it broke out,
and then it didn't quite get there
before
ripping higher. You see that? So, if we
were to label these points, we'll label
this one A,
this one B,
and then this one C.
And then the current one we're at is
potentially D.
So, you can see the pattern, right? You
have A, you you sweep above the highs,
you go back, kind of retest the bull
market sweep and more or less, but not
don't quite hit it, rally up,
go back down,
and then what? What did Bitcoin
dominance do? You'll see it played out
in the same way. Look at this.
Dominance
had that drop, rallied up, came back
down to the 21-week EMA, and then had
another move higher.
And the trend lasted far longer than
most people thought it was going to.
Right? I remember back then, like no one
believed it, right? Everyone was calling
for alt season and for for all that
stuff. And it never happened, right?
Like it just never happened, and it was
easy to uh you know, sort of sort of
dunk on the on the people that were
fading alt season anytime any altcoin
had some type of countertrend rally, but
the reality is that Bitcoin dominance
never really stopped going up. And I
know it's kind of down right now, but if
you exclude stablecoins,
if you exclude stablecoins, Bitcoin
dominance
is continuing to go up.
Right? It's just continuing to go up,
and it's not even that far removed from
the highs back in June of 2025.
The reason dominance excluding stables
is going up is because the dominance
including stables is only being
suppressed by stablecoin dominance going
up so much, which is why when Bitcoin
gets to the next bull market,
Bitcoin dominance will likely go even
higher as stablecoins uh reserve as
people sort of leave stablecoins and
flock back into Bitcoin first, because
as we know, Bitcoin leads the bull
market, not altcoins.
So,
thinking about the Bitcoin dominance
trend and applying that to say
stablecoin dominance, you have your A,
B, C, and D.
Okay, looking back at at Bitcoin
dominance just to label them for
completeness,
you can see what I'm talking about,
right? You have your
A,
B,
C,
and D.
And let me just remove some of these
um
moving averages on here just so it's a
little cleaner and and clean this up
annotations up a little bit.
So, what do you notice?
You can see
here, you have the same sort of pattern
playing out.
Where
you first come back up to the highs. And
I remember when Bitcoin dominance went
back up to 48, 49% and it came back
down, a lot of people dumped, right?
They're like, "Oh, here all season." And
then when it went to this level and then
it came back down, a lot of people
dumped. But it was just backtesting
where it broke out from.
Now, look at stablecoin dominance,
right? It is essentially just
backtesting where it broke out from,
like from these at least from these
wicks right here, putting in
a higher high and a higher low, right?
Like stablecoin dominance is
structurally bullish. It has not durably
broken down right now. And because of
where we are in the Bitcoin cycle and
how Bitcoin usually gets rejected from
its 200-day moving average,
it's hard to fade
the idea from stablecoin dominance. If
you look at Bitcoin, it just got
rejected off the 200-day moving average.
And what you'll notice is that it also
got rejected off the 200-day in 2022 and
also in 2018. Right? That's where
Bitcoin got rejected at in the bear
market from the 200-day moving average.
Which is exactly where dominance just
got or sorry, where where Bitcoin USD
just got rejected from and it happened
to correspond to stablecoin dominance
sweeping below the 21-week EMA exactly
how it bottomed out in the prior bear
market.
So, I know there's a lot of bulls all
bulled up and calling for, you know, for
new highs and whatnot, but to me this
still looks very much like a bear
market. It's obviously easy to dunk on
bears in bear markets because Bitcoin
generally trends up
and then it just breaks down quickly.
And you could argue that what if that's
happening now? What if we're at the
beginning stages of another breakdown
and people just don't know it yet?
Remember, in the last two cycles Bitcoin
found lows in June of 2018 and June of
2022.
And remember in 2018, it's a very
similar pattern as today. You had a low
in February and then a higher low in
April. Same thing, right? A low in
February, a higher low in April, and
then you put in a high in May at the
200-day moving average. And then what
happened is you formed a low in June
where you actually swept below the low
from February.
So,
let's see if this plays out. Um I I
don't think the bear market's over. I
know a lot of people do. Only time will
tell, but those are my thoughts. That's
the unfortunate pattern. Hopefully you
guys enjoy the update. If you guys like
the content, make sure you subscribe to
the channel, give the video a thumbs up,
and again check out the sale on Into The
Cryptoverse Premium at
intothecryptoverse.com.
And if you want to read the recent macro
risk memo, make sure you check it out
benjamincowen.com.
Thank you guys for tuning in and I'll
see you next time. Bye.